# myBooksReview

There are many persons who loves to read a book, our life experience also enriches our perception about a book. There are many situation that we can live and a book could be very helpfull in hard times; would be greatif we can share our experience and how an specific book could be helpfull to another person who can be reading thew same book or living a similar situation or even if you simply would like to share your review about a book.

Follow this link to [myBooksReview](https://mybooksreviews.herokuapp.com/)

## UX

When visiting myBooksReviews an user:

  * As user you can navigate across all site using the responsive navigation top menu.
  * As user you will read each book review created by registered user.
  * As user you will see book cover and a brief details about each book.
  * As user you can register to create reviews.
  * As user you can create reviews of any book.
  * As user you will see all reviews that you´ve created in "my reviews" page.
  * As user you will be able to edit each review that you created.
  * As user you will be able to delete each review that you created.
  * As user you will feel sure that only you can edit or delete your reviews
  * As user you will be able to navigate inte site even frm a desktop pc or a mobile device.
  
### Design

The site has been designed following Mobile First philosophy, also a clean design that alolow user to get focused in the information, myBooksReviews:

  * Has a responsive navigation menu 
  * Has a title in each page that let user know what page is reading
  * Uses URL containing page title 
  * Uses a clean theme that allow user to get focused in what they are looking for
  
## Features
### Existing Features

  * User validation when creating a new user - (search if the user already exist in database)
  * Cookie session that allow user to see his own reviews
  * Cookie session that allow user to login or logout
  * Delete and edit option are available only if you created the review
  
### Features Left

  * Password validation in registration form.
  * Search field in reviews page.
  * Contact form to send feedback.
  * User Profile page where the user can edit his information.
  * Get book information from an API.
  
## Used Technologies
myBooksReviews whas developed using the following technologies:

* [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) 
   * As markup language for web design.
 * [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)
   * As style sheet laguage, used for describing the website style and presentation.
 * [Bootstrap 4](https://getbootstrap.com/)
   * For quicky design and customize as responsive mobile-first website.
 * [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
   * For give functionallity and make it user-interactive.
 * [jQuery] (https://jquery.com/)
   * As javascript library for html document manipulation and event handling.
 * [Heroku] (https://heroku.com)
   * As hosting service with a Python enviroment.
 * [MongoDB Atlas] (https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas)
   * As no relational database and database managing system..
 * [GIT](https://git-scm.com/)
   * As version control system.
 * [GitHub] (https://github.com)
   * For hosting repository.
 * [GitPod] (https://gitpod.com)
   *  As online IDE.

## Testing

To ensure a successfull user experience in the website I´ve done test in the following browsers:
  * Google Chrome.
  * Mozilla Firefox.
  * Microsoft Edge (Chromium Based Version).
  * Internet Explorer 11.
 
 *I was not able to run test on safari bacause I don´t have an Apple Device.
  
 Also made a simulation of the following devices in each browser using the Developer Tools:
  * Samsung Galaxy 5 (Android 5.0).
  * Samsung S9/S9+ (Android 7.0).
  * iPad.
  * iPhone 6/7/8 (iOS 11).
  * iPhone 6/7/8  Plus (iOS 11).
  * iPhone X/XS (iOS 12).
  * Kindle Fire HDX Linux.
  
### Tests Performed

  * Create an user account 
  * Try to create an user account with and existing username
  * Try to see MyReviews without login
  * Try to login without register
  * Try to logint with a worng username password
  

## Deployment

The project was deployed using Heroku , the [URL](https://mybooksreviews.herokuapp.com/) is automatic generated by Heroku and local deployment was not necesary in this case.

### How do I hosted the website

  * Create an account in Heroku
  * Create a new project
  * Specify configuration for Python enviroment (even in Heroku as in the reposotory)
  * Insert enviroment variables
  * Connect with GitHub Account
  * Activate Autodeployment function

### How to locally set the project

Will be Necesary to use the Code Institute Template and a GitPod Accoount
  * Make a fork of this reposiroty
  * Create an account in GitPod
  * Install GitPod Extension in your browser
  * Once installed gitpoed extension open GitHub and go to the forked repository
  * Click in the "green gitpod" button
  * Enjoy!

## Credits

This Project is inspired on Code Institute Project idea

### Acknowledgment

I would like to acknowledge to the following persons:

  * God, my father. He give me the inspiration and the ability to do this.
  * Diego, my little son. He is my motivation and my strength.
  * Irlanda, my wife. She took care of everything so I could focus on the project.
  * Precious Ijege, my mentor. He guide me through this project.
